---
description: 'Listen here[hyperlink]'
---

# Episode 1: Knowledge Infrastructures

**In the first episode of the show, we highlight UC Irvine Informatics Professor Geoffrey Bowker’s essay “Sustainable Knowledge Infrastructures” and explore how his argument in favor of revising academia’s ‘knowledge infrastructures’ to improve interdisciplinary cooperation applies to the DAO space.  How interdisciplinary is the space right now? What do we stand to gain by opening up to a greater degree of interdisciplinary collaboration? And how might we go about achieving this, if we decide it’s something we want?**

## **Introducing interdisciplinarity**

To begin with, what's the big deal about collaborating across disciplinary lines?  In the DAO sphere, we're working on projects that could eventually impact many aspects and areas of peoples' lives.  Considering the grand scale of this ambition, it's in our own best interest, as people working to build the best platforms, services, and organizations that we can, to constantly work to deepen our understanding of those parts of the world that we're trying to change.  Among other things, this requires examining our objects of study from a variety of viewpoints.  

On the need for interdisciplinarity in academia, Bowker says: "_We are still, in the so-called developed world, locked into a knowledge production system inherited from the Enlightenment. From that epoch, we have our current classification of knowledge—soft/hard sciences, the humanities versus the sciences, the organization of knowledge into 'disciplines' \(for all that we recognize in practice that these are ridiculous divides\). We have inherited the great classifications of knowledge, from Auguste Comte, Ampѐre, and others, who tell us that the world of knowledge can be shoehorned into a set of a priori categories—physics tells about the material world in raw form; chemistry about when the physical forms start to interact; biology about when those interactions become sufficiently complex as to self-organize; and sociology about when self-organizing biological units achieve awareness. As you walk through many august campuses, you can see this classification inscribed in stone... In my current circular campus—the University of California at Irvine—there is a void in the middle, so I am forced to walk to my left from information and computer science to meet engineering and then the hard sciences, or to my right and meet first anthropology and the social sciences and finally the humanities and the arts \(which are over a bridge, duly removed from the circle\). These divides are not just notional; as they get inscribed into the landscape they shape who meets whom with what regularity— they order the possibility of discourse._"

There is, however, friction against achieving this transformation in academia, as Bowker observes below.  What's stopping organizations in the blockchain and DAO spaces from working in more interdisciplinary ways?

Bowker: "_Thomas Kuhn’s The Structure of Scientific Revolutions details the difference between normal science and revolutionary \(or transformative\) science. The distinction between an incremental science, which supports current practices and theories, and a science that lays radically new pathways to understanding, remains salient. Scientific epistemologies become deeply embedded and difficult to challenge openly because they, like other technologies, become engrained in infrastructures. Reticence to consider new forms of expression, new ways of knowing, and objects outside of the standards of a scientific community impedes the mechanisms of transformation. It takes time, strategy, and a realignment of incentives to bring scientific communities to a state of openness where new epistemologies and ontologies can be considered openly._"

## Interdisciplinary tactics

 In the DAO space, a trend seems to be emerging in which 'generalists' are accorded a basic amount of respect, \(at least insofar as they aren't usually challenged to explain the value a generalist can provide.\)  Bowker describes an emerging role--the "knowledge broker"-- that he feels is essential to the proper functioning of interdisciplinary projects. A knowledge broker is something of a superstar generalist, who can act as a point of connection among disconnected specialists who work in a particular field, so that they can continue to focus on their niche while the knowledge broker helps connect their contribution to the overall project.  For a real world example of a knowledge broker in action, read this fascinating [story](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/08/the-secret-life-of-illuminated-manuscripts-as-told-in-dna/536172/) on the interdisciplinary project to test the DNA from the animal skins used in medieval manuscripts.  It features a knowledge broker \(archaeologist by trade\) named Matthew Collins who brought together medievalists, archivists, zooarchaeologists, and others to unlock data that may ultimately provide new insights into the medical and economic histories of Europe.

Bowker: "_Interdisciplinary projects, particularly those headed by a single investigator, demand trained interdisciplinarians to conduct them. The objects of study, as well as the informing theoretical bases, require the triangulation and synthesis of multiple methodologies, both qualitative and quantitative, and call upon the ability of investigators to integrate multiple epistemic viewpoints...  Broadly speaking, we need to recognize and train new types of knowledge workers \(brokers and transducers\), who can move from atomistic to holistic knowledge forms, and to create appropriate new knowledge-bearing forms. Knowledge brokers, as a functional role within an academic ecology, move among multiple communities and are adept at making the connections across social and scholarly networks necessary to spur creative knowledge work._" 

## "Intellectually worthwhile" collaborators

Bowker tells his readers that there's "_a potential to create legitimate conduits for recognizing and valuing knowledge expressions arising outside of the traditional institutional boundaries, as is the case of **intellectually worthwhile activities found in citizen science and the maker and diy communities.**_"

Clearly, many in the DAO space are interested in collaborating with academics, but let's take a moment to be honest with ourselves: do we, as a space, consistently project a front of intellectual respectability?  

There are obvious reasons to say that we do, but a major counterargument is this: we have a tendency to incorporate ideas and arguments from thinkers outside the space into our own arguments about technology without actually taking the context of the original argument into account.  That's to say, we often simply mine texts from 'outside the discipline' for useable ideas rather than engaging with them on their own terms.  In other words, our own attempts at interdisciplinarity often leave something to be desired.  

## Interoperability ≠ functional interdisciplinarity

Bowker argues that interoperability is never guaranteed to bring interdisciplinarity.  What are the implications of this for the open source software movement?  How would parallel "notions of knowledge" operate in software, and how might they be managed?

"_Popular attention and academic research on changing knowledge systems have tended to follow the new, fast-moving, and dramatic parts of the current transition. For example, in Reinventing Discovery, Michael Nielsen extrapolates from current events to the eventual rise of a scientific culture of 'extreme openness' where 'all information of scientific value, from raw experimental data and computer code to all the questions, ideas, folk knowledge, and speculations that are currently locked up inside the heads of individual scientists' is moved on to the network, 'in forms that are not just human-readable, but also machine-readable, as part of a data web.' Clay Shirky argues that a 'cognitive surplus' will permit massively distributed contributions to the analysis of information and the production of new knowledge. While surely partially correct, these breathless assessments too often lose track of crucial questions about the complex processes of mutual adjustment by which older knowledge institutions adapt to emergent ones, and vice versa. Charmed by the novelty of the first date, they miss the complexity of the marriage that ensues: the dynamics of scale, time, and adjustment by which new practices emerge.  Given the layered nature of infrastructure, navigating among different scales—whether of time and space, of human collectivities, or of data— represents a critical challenge for the design, use, and maintenance of robust knowledge infrastructures. A single knowledge infrastructure must often track and support fluid and potentially competing or contradictory notions of knowledge. Often invisible, these notions are embodied in the practices, policies, and values embraced by individuals, technical systems, and institutions._"

## The limits of an object-oriented approach to interdisciplinarity

Finally, Bowker argues that object-oriented approaches are not a likely path to interdisciplinarity, but rather a dead end in that regard.  Do you think his argument \(which is focused on the 'knowledge infrastructures' of academia\) applies to web3 technologies as well?

 "_If the world actually corresponded to the hopeful vision of data- sharing proponents, one could simply treat each discipline’s outputs as an 'object' in an object-oriented database \(to use a computing analogy\). Discipline X could simply plug discipline Y ’s outputs into its own inputs. One could thus capitalize on the virtues of object orientation: it would not matter what changed within the discipline, because the outputs would always be the same. Unfortunately, this is unlikely—perhaps even impossible—for both theoretical and practical reasons. An 'object-oriented' solution for these incompatibilities is theoretically improbable because the fundamental ontologies of disciplines often change as those disciplines evolve. This is among the oldest results in the history of science:... A crisis shook virology, for example, in the 1960s when it was discovered that 'plant virus' and 'animal virus' were not mutually exclusive categories. Evolutionary biology suffered a similar, and related, crisis when it was learned that some genes could jump between species within a given genus, and even between species of different genera. Suddenly, disciplines that previously had no need to communicate with each other found that they had to do so, which then required them to adjust both their classification standards and their underlying ontologies. In practice, an object-oriented solution to ontological incompatibilities is unlikely because we have not yet developed a cadre of metadata workers who could effectively address the issues, and we have not yet fully faced the implications of the basic infrastructural problem of maintenance. We do know that it takes enormous work to shift a database from one medium to another, let alone to adjust its outputs and algorithms so that it can remain useful both to its home discipline and to neighboring ones. Thus three results of today’s scramble to post every available scrap of data online are, first, a plethora of “dirty” data, whose quality may be impossible for other investigators to evaluate; second, weak or nonexistent guarantees of long-term persistence for many data sources; and, finally, inconsistent metadata practices that may render the reuse of data impossible—despite their intent to do the opposite._"



